<h1>Interactive Website Development</h1>
During this project I will begin to complete a website that allows for a user to play a game on which will test the users memory. I would like to create a game that is more than just a basic game based around a simple memory game just like simon-says. I wanted to have the game have more content that just one basic overal game. I at least want to produce a game with some form of progression and some form of variation. I want to allow for the user to be able to have a form of level and be able to have a system. Like a terrain generator and be able to generate a series of different types of terrains using a universal and versatile function to create a two dimensional array of depth to the terrain and also another function to render the terrain and produce a coloured reprosentation of the terrain within a canvas. I would like a game that can generate a sequence of characters or inputs that could test the users ability to be able to remember and reiterate the sequence back. Using HTML, CSS and JavaScript I will create a memory based game with a distinct theme and begin to make a website to hold this game which will be interactive, self-explanitory and be able to tell the user how to perform actions within the game to allow for them to reach sucess.

Within the inital production of the game I will begin by thinking of a theme that will be introudced into my website. I would like to also allow for this theme to be user friendly and also be able to be constant throughtout the webpage('s). I would would like to keep in mind of the font style as a fundemental feature as the game will be relying parcially on the presence of a text box or text output. As of unit one, I would also like to be able to set up the website with the main features at the forfront, and allow for the theme to be distint but basically colour less as the webpage I would like to create cant effect the users too much and create a gap within the audience. For example, anyone colour blind or anyone who has a visual disadvantage must still be able to play the game and have a great experience from playing.

<h2>Introduction</h2>
I start by initially create an idea or theme. I would like to try and create a memeory based game that has a form of a randomness too the game. I would like to create something that has a visual interacting with the user. I originally thought of an idea of being able to Dig Up items within a random terrain. That can be distinctly altered by choices by the user. I also would like to allow for the user to be able to upgrade something that they use during the game to show that they are progressing and that they are rewarded for most of there progression. I would also like to allow for the user to be rewarded a series of items depending on how well they may perform during the game. I would like to make a game with an idea that the user can find distinct locations on the map that they can select and click so that they may be able to harvest more valuable goods. I would alos like to allow for some of these items that they are able to obtain to be either an item for the user to use to upgrade there items or for them to see as a reward or visual representation of how well they may compelete the different mini-games.

I begin with a series of planning most of my planning takes place on both the computer in a practical workspace like this or on pen and paper. I do most the the ideas on paper as it allows for a quicker production of the webpage and also allows for you too really start to mess around with the idea. To produce an online version of the planning I then will begin to use wireframe to create a proper structured document where I can mess around with the idea further.

The wireframe can be found at this web address, <a href="<a href="https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_lVBKfRY=/"> Wireframe</a>">Wireframe</a> - (https://miro.com/app/board/o9J_lVBKfRY=/).

I would like to begin by also stating some ground rules within this produce. I must create a game for my Unit 2 project. Along with this the game must use all of the listed langauges and along with the use of these languages produce a game and website that allows for a very strong communication with the user. This can be within telling the user how to play the game, to features like resizeing, and also within showing the player some form of progression within his game. Along with these initial features that must be included. I would like to also produce something within the game that will allow for the user to be able to visually see a form of randomness. This can be through any sort of idea. Going with this concept and idea I would like to be able to produce terrain which can randomly vary in size, structure or any other feature. Along with this randomness I would also like to create a text-based companion of some form like some sort of named "Character" just to make the user feel as though they are not along on this basic game adventure but yet work with someone.

I have also created another MD file which contains the changes and development log of the website to show what I have changed. <a href ="Update.md">Update.md</a>.

<h2>Initial Concept</h2>
I have created a wireframe with this concept. I had not had several ideas come to mind about this project and had already generally decided on the feels and looks of the website. I would generally like to try and stick to the wireframe as this would allow for me to be able to keep the idea to how I had imagined it. I didnt also want to tapper too much as this could possibly cause a clash or disliking within the features and looks of this website. I wanted to keep it very fundementally and practically strong and the styling would be set up to try and present to the user that the canvas and text box are the game and that they are the text outputs and canvas mini-games.

Coming from this idea the wireframe depicts just the general flow and a basic but effectie plan for me to understand how to program the website. I would just like to keep the plan more on the functional side of the way the website will behave and not based on the actual content that will be contained within the code. I would like to have a series of freedom when producing the tuturial text and functions on the website so that the idea can develop and continue to expand into a more detailed idea.

I would also like to make sure that I begin by developing the listeners and initiail functions needed to take feedback from the user. From this feedback I would begin to be able to produce the fundemental inputs from the user. I am going to try and set this game to the computer and pc audience as I would like to check the speed of inputs placed by the user from a keyboard and mouse. Most of the instinctive games would be set around the use of a keyabord and the ability for the user to be able to repeat a randomised string of charcters that are needed to test how accurate the user was at repeating and remembering the sequence.

Also along with this wireframe I want to be able to focus on the development of how it will function and work and how it will use user inputs to be able to create visual or text-based outputs.

I had planned for a long time to make the game based around just a simple concept that the user would have to complete something that would test their memory.

<h2>Development</h2>
I would also begin by creating the usual styling that I would also produce on my webpages. I originally enable borders on some of the items within a webapge to then be able to visually see how the asset would sit whilst on the page. I like to call this skeleton-structure or bordering. I have done this whilst in college to help within the development stages to properly see how each element may be altered whiilst using the CSS styling.

I noticed that the text felt a little too close to the surrounding border within the main section. I would like to keep the border around this part of the page to allow for a text-printout vibe. As though its an old type of adventure-text game. Where a designed text-box will sit and display to the user any outputs. For a solution instead of bring the text in using padding or any other form of styling I have chosen to use the text-align property to move the text and canvas to the center of the screen. I feel as though this choice helps the user be able to read the text a little more clear and properly seperates the text from the box.

I want to begin by creating a function that is called at the correct time and allows for me to be able to obtain the users information that I need for my game to be functional. I want to wait for the mouse to be used within the webpage to be able to obtain its location. I cant to try and find the correct controlls needed to allow for the user to easily use and move around the webpage. I need to create an effect control scheme so that I can easily tell the user during a brief tutorial how to play and interactive wiht the game.

<h2>During Development</h2>
Whilst trying to initially create the website. I had produced a website that just involved the canvas. There was an issue with the text with the font of my choice not correctly working on that canvas and from this conclusion I choice to remove the text from the canvas and try to externalize the text. I dont want to change the font as my idea originated form a visual thought of a page similar to this Dig game with this font.

During production I had a few names in mind which was either dig up or dig out, or some form of dig related name. I wanted to try and just keep the name simple but effected. This name served a simple purpose for it too be a basic name that is easy to read and effective at showing the user what we are about. I rebelieve the title that I have sepected was in fact very fundementally self-explanitory, giving the user a little bit of a jokey catchy name.

Also as the idea is to create a text box I have indented and centered the text in an effect to make the text presented as though its a script or spoken piece of text for the game. I want to do this as a way to display to the user that the external text is an actual output for the users actions and any reactions from the JavaScript.

During development I noticed the idea begin to get rather ellaberate so I began to produce and create a help webpage that I filled in with any information that I felt as though would be benefactory to included about the webpage or/and the game.

Throughout development I will continue to slowly add several different functions to the application and test each one. I want to make sure that each function that is added to this game works correctly and I try to produce a series of tests. I usually use different visual outputs. I usually use the textbox as a visual outputter so I can see in what part of the function or script there may be an error or it may not be running correctly. I try and make sure that I dont do too many changes without constantly updating the webpage and checking to see if the output matches exactly what I want the webpage to do. For the beginning of production I would always use the textbox as a visual output and once the core function of the site works I then add some of the other features.

The range feature is a very helpful function that will be quiet helpful with most of the things that I am adding to this webpage. I want to make sure that data that is passed through is correctly altered and contained so that it doesnt begin to cause issues within the webpage.

For each and every test I make sure that I create a feature or function and then begin to try and find where the function has ran into an error by using the texbox print out to find the exact location where it has stopped. Then effectivly you know which parts of the script are able to run and which parts have stoppped the code/script.

Also during testing I always try and make sure that the functionality of the website is key. I want to make sure that the website will always behave as intended. This is by tracking each action and function to find if there is any issues or incorrect actions a function may be doing. I want to make sure that the foundation of the website is as strong as the overal product. Make sure that the beginning interactive-functions in the website are correct will allow for me to begin to make sure that user inputs are being tracked and used correctly. Whilst testing the draw functions I made sure that I was able to use them for a simple action like printing a blue square on the canvas.

When creating the terrain generation I liked my init() function to the movement of my mouse to be able to produce a new peice of terrain to make sure that it continued to work. Now that that is tested I can now work on the menu what will be displayed to the textbox. Using hsl color function of the CSS I can also display to the user thought the canvas a form of depth within the terrain.

Whilst trying to create the function to display the nodes I had not noticed that I had wrongly set the hsl color function to an incorrect value and not completed the functions structure. Instead of hsl(#, #%, #%) I had missed a comma. During testing to try and find this issue I had printed to the textbox the color function in draw until I noticed the issue and found that I had wrongly structure the color hsl function. Testing is key within the development as you can make a series of unexpected, mistakes that although simple are beyond effective at stopping the script or running incorrectly. Another simple mistake was creating a function that gives me a percentage of how similar too arrays where which I incorrectly set up to reuse the variable instead of a set amount. For example, x-(x/5), x-(100/5). For the first use both of these will return the same value but one will begin to recycle the new value and begin to incorrectly deminish.

One of the reasons that I wanted to create a random terrain generater with a visual difference is so that when remembering the locations of the points of interest you can find tiels that give away a markable location and allows for the user to be show something of a higher detail with an effective print out. I am glad that thoughtout testing the game stayed responsive and didn't become delayed or slow by the amount of processes that are running during the game. I also wanted to make sure that the text what is displayed to the user isn't as needed and is added after the entire game has been worked out. I want to make sure that the player can possibly continue thoughout the game and there is differences present within the game.
<h2>Finalizing</h2>
When finalizing the JS script I had placed it in the website called JSHint which had run thought my code and told me how to change the code to correct anything that could cause issues or any warning that it saw within my code. The only issues where simple locations where I had not used the semi-colon to finish a line of code and one location wherer I had mispelled the name of a variable which I corrected. I have worked with the results from the website to create a finalized version of the code. I had got it to the point where it just states that four functions are not used, but in fact these functions are used in the HTML.

I had gotten feedback from close friends to be able to alter the website to make it more user friendly. Most of them just stated that colour would be nice to add. As I am not intending of adding color to the website I would like to keep this space visual neutral and just allow for the colour just to be present on the canvas when the user wants to play the main min-game. Others said that the font is very good for the theme and like my alternative choices in other styles.

The main feature, the terrain generator, was one main thing people liked. They thought that the idea of the game having a random but effectivly controlable feature was a clever way of allow for the user to progress and get further in the game.

I have kept in mind the rules that are both set by the course and set by myself and kept the project close to those rules as much as I could. With the use of the planning both digitally and physically I think that I had greatly planned the game and made sure that all the features I altered or added where done for a specific reason and that this game is close to the original plan of the games original idea.

I had also check my HTML and CSS using a validator to make sure that both of them work correctly. My CSS had been checked and caused no issues but there was one issue with my HTML on the index. It stated that the section tag was missing a title, instead of adding a title, as I want to keep the website the exact way that it is. I just changed the container to a div container. It also states that there is no issues with the HTML of the help page.

I feel as though the tutorial that I give the user as they start the game is much better than some of the other ideas of tutorial text that I have had. I want to make sure that I try and break the entire game down before they begin to play the game. I have also altered the controls so that the user can either use the keyboard and then use the mouse when they are chosing locations on the mini-map or they can just use the WASD keys and the Mouse buttons. I want to try and make the game responsive and wanted to change the way on which the controls are done. I want to make a main function that would run thought the different features and functions in the game. I saw that when you break apart some of the functions and make different parts of the script do different things it can get rather confusing and sometimes a little overwriten. By mistakes happening you can accidently do recessive parts of script or overwrite or re-write function and I thought as this script is for a basic set of mini-games just to try and deal with everything within a main function. It helps me to shorten and simplify code where I can.

<h2>Bibliography</h2>
These are the links on which I have used to find help on the JS language.<br>
<a href="https://www.w3schools.com/js/default.asp">W3Schools</a> - (https://www.w3schools.com/js/default.asp) I have used this webpage to be able to just enquire about issues and errors that I have had with my program and also used it to understand features of JS to be able to understand the differences.<br>
<a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/undefined">MDN Web Docs</a> - (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/undefined) - I have used this website to search for general information about JS just to understand how JS uses different functions and generally how to use JS. I have used several programming languages and just like to find the differences within the languages.<br>
<a href="https://jshint.com/">JSHint JS Validator</a> - (https://jshint.com/) - I used this to check over my JS scripts and make sure that are valid and work correctly.
<a href="https://validator.w3.org/">HTML Validator</a> - (https://validator.w3.org/) - I used this to check over the HTML of my help and index page to make sure that it is valid.
<a href="https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/"> CSS Validator</a> - (https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/) - I used this site to be able to check the CSS on my main style sheet.