I initially just begin by create and starting the index document and then start to create a wireframe to allow for me to show a form of flow through the webpage. I would like to produce a theme and also be able to produce a structure within the webpage that is very tidy and functional.
I then begin to add semantic tags to the webpage to try and structure the webpage in a paticular order to keep items within the page grouped together. I create a canvas and also create a title and a sub-description of what the game may be about. I have managed to come up with an idea of the use of a functions to create a random terrain that will take in specific variables depending on the users choices.
I also want to try and begin to layout the webpage with the properties in mind. I would like for this sight to possible not contain an overflow but be effective at being resized on either smaller or larger devices.
I have began to style to website by placing borders around the different elements to see where they are placed on the site and try to gain the functionality and structure that I want from this project. I also added the font to the webpage from the initial idea that I have had. I choice this font from the several pre-installed fonts on Windows 10 and ran the theme from this font in mind. I have also added a series of backup fonts for other computers, OS types or browsers for maximum coverage so that over users may still be diverted to a similar effective font.
Noticing the centering feature of the alignment and also noticing how close the text is to the outer border I choice to make every element on the webpage centered to prevent the text from begin to close to the outer box. I changed the header tag from begin the only centered item on the page to the whole body and children tags being centered.
I have also added a title to the website and altered the title that came with the intial setup of the webpage template.
The bordering around the header is no longer needed. I will also begin to alter and change any of the other borders that may not be neccessary anymore. Going with the theme I would like to keep the border around the text box to display to the user a feeling as though this is like a texbox from a video game.
I have began altering the sizes of the actual webpage to make sure that if fills in the entire real-estate of the page. I want to effectively use up most of the space so I can produce any theme that I would like to present to the user and effectively as well.
Also added a text-indent to the section tag as this would allow for the text to have an indentation for later use as this would give the user a visual understanding that it is a text box.
Begin by creating the initial function, I want to try and effectively begin the main script and also initialize the mouse listener. I want to try and create a function that can return the X and Y position of the mouse further in development as this can offer a better and more effective position getter.
I am beginning by trying to create a very effective mouse position call out function and want to make the function suit what I would like to make.
I am attempting to try and place code within the file that will allow for a fundemental level of control. I want the controls to be sorted before I begin further development of this webpage. I am going to try and find names that are better suited for the functions that are present on this webpage.
I have chosen to make both of the variables that will understand the mouses position part of a modular function with a return. This will allow for other programs to be able to get a return of the players mouse position. I want the functions to be simplified and easier to read and use.
I am going to add a function that can control the range of a value to allow for me to be able to control numerical data that could be present later on during the production of my game. I want to make this simple but effective function which will try and correct values so that they can pass through any other function easier.
I had attempted to add a click function but I will try and figure out the exact way on which I need to produce a function which will work as I need it too. I removed the functions print out from the texbox as this was causing issues with the output.
Began by adding a terrain generator, I would like to now make sure that the terrain is being generated and that a can print to the canavs. I want to try and create a creative but strong generator which will create a terrain which can have depth but also not be able to reach a value below a Min Value.
After creating and posting my function to generate the terrain I notice that it could be altered to simply and control the function better with the use of the range function. Instead of getting a tile and checking if it can be altered by a value we can simply enter the value into the range function and it will test whether that is posibble or not.
Whilst testing this document, I noticed an issue with the way on which I get the users position I will continue to try and work out a way on which I can monitor the users position but also be able to aquire that value without needing the event as a condition to the function.
I have changed the function to allow for me to be able to call the function out and normally update the Mouse Pos variables. I can then also use these values now during my script.
I have commented across the script to be able to tell people what the script does and the purpose to everything included.
I now want to create a draw and clear function to be able to print out what I want to print out to the canvas. I will use a function provided by JS to get the context of the canvas and begin to draw to the canvas.
I have tested the draw and clear function by using both of them seperate. I simply just printed a rectangle first and then began to add color afterwards. I then tested the clear function and it works as if its placed after the draw function it begins to clear the canvas.
Increased the size of the canvas and began to alter a few features of the script, I want to make sure that I am testing the product thoughtout development so I linked the init() script to the movement of my mouse to produce new terrain.
I have now started to add the menu screens and allowed for the player to be able to create a piece of terrain. I have set up the biome function to take several values but will begin to test and fix the game using just one biome type for the mean time. I will focus now on the functionality of the game instead of any of the other features. I will now try to input the games ability to generate key locations on the map using a function.
This function will generate series of locations which will be able to be displayed to the user briefly and then they will have the ability to try and select those locations.
Now that the function can create random locations and display them on the canvas. I will now add a varibale to take away the display of the nodes once a certain amount of time has passed.
I have noticed an issue with the draw function where the nodes are in the color of the terrain and this needs to be changed to a color with a higher visibility. I am trying to set the color to a hsl(0, 0%, 0%) which is a black negative color.
I want to after the user has placed there dig attempts I then want to display them on the map. Whilst they are displayed I want the user to try and complete a sequence to do a successful dig. I will now create the funtion to create random requences.
I have successfully added a sequence randomised function and also an array similarity tester which will return a percentage of how similar those two arrays where. Now I will begin to make it remove and add items to the inventory depending on how well they complete this sequence recall.
I have now made a function that checks that the location of the mouse is within an array, and gives the user an item depending on whether that item is on a point of interest.
Also updated the menus and create a message that will be displayed on the inventory screen if the player has no items in their inventory. Also will create a unique message for the museum to display they have nothing to process.
I have added the data sheets for this game. There are different biomes, rarities to items and now also the ability to find locations on the map that give you better items than if you select a part of the terrain which was not a point of interest.
I ave ran into an issue with the sequence finalising...
Added basic information to the help page so that I can create a CSS style which is similar to my main page.